doc/plan/API.md, before:


## Authoring Environment
### View

### Controller

### Model


## GamePlayer
### View

--- 

```java
import java.util.ArrayList;

//Cell wrapper to hold multiple blocks in one grid of the cell
public class CellView {

  private List<BlockView> content;

  public CellView() {
    this.content = new ArrayList<>();
  }

  public List<BlockView> getViews() {
    return content.clone();
  }
}

public abstract class BlockView {
  private StackPane stackPane;
  public BlockView initializeBlock(String imgPath) {
    //Initalizes some JavaFX object with the image from the imagePath
  }
  //Or whatever JavaFX obj it is
  public StackPane getView() {
    return this.stackPane;
  }
}

  //For each subclass
  public class BabaView extends BlockView {
  }
  public class WallView extends BlockView {
  }
  //etc...
}
```
- Abstract BlockView paradigm for the visual representations of the game objects.
  - Ideally has a hierarchy, different block types are abstraction by the superclass BlockView
  - CellView is made to keep track of and hold multiple blocks that can exist in the same grid cell. 
  Its contents should be ordered to determine the overlap and which block(s) Baba can interact with.
  - This makes the front-end grid easier to deal with because it will just be a 2D array of CelLView
  objects.
---  



### Controller

---
```java
handleUserInput(keyPress input) {}
```
- Handles the inputs of the user, such as moving a block with arrow keys.
---
```java
getTranslation() {}
```
- Gets the translation of a text from a Language controller.
---




### Model

---
```java 
isWinnable(Level level) {}
```
- Checks if the provided game level is winnable by ensuring it meets certain criteria, such as having at least one win condition and necessary game objects.
---
```java
 public void interpretRules(Grid grid) {
  // Scan the grid for rule patterns
  // For each found rule, update the components of the relevant blocks.
  // For example, if you find "ROCK IS PUSH", locate all ROCK blocks and add/update the Pushable component.
}
```
-  Helps to update the different game states based on the rules that are present in the game.
---
```java
@Override
public void applyRule(String behavior) {
    // Apply the rule to the game
}

```
- Applies a rule to the game, such as "ROCK IS PUSH" or "BABA IS YOU" or "FLAG IS WIN".
---


## JsonManager (Jonathan)

#### Design Goals
* The design goal for the JsonManager class is to have a versatile and easily usable design that 
allows the team to be able to work with JSON data easily. The ideal outcome is to allow for the 
authoring environment and the game player to be able to obtain json data for their parsers or to 
be able to turn data into json so that they can be saved. 

#### Primary Abstractions
The primary abstractions are going to be that the loading, saving, and acquisition or transforming 
of json data will be abstracted away into this JsonManager that will include methods that
encapsulate their implementation such as:

```java
public JSONObject loadFromFile(String fileName) {
    // load JSONObject/(s) from files
}

public void saveToFile(JSONObject jsonObject, Stage stage) {
  // save JSON data to a file chosen by the user
}

public void getValue(JSONObject jsonObject, String key) {
  // get value from JSON with corresponding key
}

public Object setValue(JSONObject jsonObject, String key, Object value) {
  // set value with corresponding key to new object value
}
```

#### Usefulness for Developers

This class will be useful for developers as they will be able to 
obtain and set JSON values whilst also being able to load them in 
or save them. This information can then go to the parsers that 
the authoring environment and game player will have set up and that
will allow us to integrate our game information with json and 
vice versa.

Commit message:

added APIs for authoring environment controller and model

doc/plan/API.md, after:


## Authoring Environment
### View

### Controller

---
```java
addGameElement(Enum element, int row, int column) {}

```
- Adds a game element to the specified grid cell. Handles user actions 
  to add game elements onto the grid in the Authoring Environment.
---

### Model

---
```java
modifyGridDimensions(int rows, int column){}
```
- Modifies the dimensions of the grid : updates the internal grid representation to reflect the modified dimensions.
---


## GamePlayer
### View

--- 

```java
import java.util.ArrayList;

//Cell wrapper to hold multiple blocks in one grid of the cell
public class CellView {

  private List<BlockView> content;

  public CellView() {
    this.content = new ArrayList<>();
  }

  public List<BlockView> getViews() {
    return content.clone();
  }
}

public abstract class BlockView {
  private StackPane stackPane;
  public BlockView initializeBlock(String imgPath) {
    //Initalizes some JavaFX object with the image from the imagePath
  }
  //Or whatever JavaFX obj it is
  public StackPane getView() {
    return this.stackPane;
  }
}

  //For each subclass
  public class BabaView extends BlockView {
  }
  public class WallView extends BlockView {
  }
  //etc...
}
```
- Abstract BlockView paradigm for the visual representations of the game objects.
  - Ideally has a hierarchy, different block types are abstraction by the superclass BlockView
  - CellView is made to keep track of and hold multiple blocks that can exist in the same grid cell. 
  Its contents should be ordered to determine the overlap and which block(s) Baba can interact with.
  - This makes the front-end grid easier to deal with because it will just be a 2D array of CelLView
  objects.
---  



### Controller

---
```java
handleUserInput(keyPress input) {}
```
- Handles the inputs of the user, such as moving a block with arrow keys.
---
```java
getTranslation() {}
```
- Gets the translation of a text from a Language controller.
---




### Model

---
```java 
isWinnable(Level level) {}
```
- Checks if the provided game level is winnable by ensuring it meets certain criteria, such as having at least one win condition and necessary game objects.
---
```java
 public void interpretRules(Grid grid) {
  // Scan the grid for rule patterns
  // For each found rule, update the components of the relevant blocks.
  // For example, if you find "ROCK IS PUSH", locate all ROCK blocks and add/update the Pushable component.
}
```
-  Helps to update the different game states based on the rules that are present in the game.
---
```java
@Override
public void applyRule(String behavior) {
    // Apply the rule to the game
}

```
- Applies a rule to the game, such as "ROCK IS PUSH" or "BABA IS YOU" or "FLAG IS WIN".
---


## JsonManager (Jonathan)

#### Design Goals
* The design goal for the JsonManager class is to have a versatile and easily usable design that 
allows the team to be able to work with JSON data easily. The ideal outcome is to allow for the 
authoring environment and the game player to be able to obtain json data for their parsers or to 
be able to turn data into json so that they can be saved. 

#### Primary Abstractions
The primary abstractions are going to be that the loading, saving, and acquisition or transforming 
of json data will be abstracted away into this JsonManager that will include methods that
encapsulate their implementation such as:

```java
public JSONObject loadFromFile(String fileName) {
    // load JSONObject/(s) from files
}

public void saveToFile(JSONObject jsonObject, Stage stage) {
  // save JSON data to a file chosen by the user
}

public void getValue(JSONObject jsonObject, String key) {
  // get value from JSON with corresponding key
}

public Object setValue(JSONObject jsonObject, String key, Object value) {
  // set value with corresponding key to new object value
}
```

#### Usefulness for Developers

This class will be useful for developers as they will be able to 
obtain and set JSON values whilst also being able to load them in 
or save them. This information can then go to the parsers that 
the authoring environment and game player will have set up and that
will allow us to integrate our game information with json and 
vice versa.
